README.md, before:

# Crane's DIY B0XXes
### Version 3 - LaserCutB0XX
![image](https://i.imgur.com/o3sY8wT.jpg)
### Version 2 - AluminumB0XX
![image](https://i.imgur.com/DIVHcBw.jpg)
### Version 1 - WoodB0XX
![image](https://i.imgur.com/nWhepdX.jpg)



The B0XX is a controller designed for Super Smash Brothers Melee, with ergonomics being the number one priority. It is

    Designed by Aziz “Hax$” Al-Yami
    Produced & Engineered by Stephen “Streamlord” Kasmir
    Programmed & Engineered by Kyle “simple” McDowell
    Logo & Art  by Jacqueline "Jisu" Choe

More information regarding the B0XX and links to preorder it are found here.

https://b0xx.com/

To contact me with any comments or questions regarding the info in this repo, join my Discord server here: https://discord.gg/S3qgZWD

I wanted to try this layout before the product launches, so I created a B0XX from raw materials (later a prefabricated case), arcade hardware, and an Arduino.

I first created a B0XX using wood, which you can see the process of in the MyWoodB0XX folder, but did not like the feeling of its surface and its large size.

I then made one in a much smaller aluminum case that I purchased from Digikey, and have had an acrylic panel laser cut with the layout I drew in Autodesk Inventor. Info about it and its upgrades can be found in the MyAluminumB0XX folder.

I have now made one using a laser cut wooden case, and internally it uses my new GCCPCB which allows for much cleaner internals, and many new features. More info about this build and the GCCPCB can be found in the MyLaserCutB0XX folder.

The process of making the detachable GameCube cable used with my Aluminum B0XX is detailed in the Detachable Cable folder. 

The MiniB0XX folder contains files pertaining to a 3d printable case that is similar in size and potential functionality to my Aluminum B0XX. 

The code folder includes the most up to date software for flashing to an Arduino.

If sharing any of the files/information found here, give credit where credit is due.

Commit message:

Updated Discord invite links, swapped Amazon links for affiliated links.

README.md, after:

# Crane's DIY B0XXes
### Version 3 - LaserCutB0XX
![image](https://i.imgur.com/o3sY8wT.jpg)
### Version 2 - AluminumB0XX
![image](https://i.imgur.com/DIVHcBw.jpg)
### Version 1 - WoodB0XX
![image](https://i.imgur.com/nWhepdX.jpg)



The B0XX is a controller designed for Super Smash Brothers Melee, with ergonomics being the number one priority. It is

    Designed by Aziz “Hax$” Al-Yami
    Produced & Engineered by Stephen “Streamlord” Kasmir
    Programmed & Engineered by Kyle “simple” McDowell
    Logo & Art  by Jacqueline "Jisu" Choe

More information regarding the B0XX and links to preorder it are found here.

https://b0xx.com/

To contact me with any comments or questions regarding the info in this repo, join my Discord server here: https://craneslab.xyz/discord

I wanted to try this layout before the product launches, so I created a B0XX from raw materials (later a prefabricated case), arcade hardware, and an Arduino.

I first created a B0XX using wood, which you can see the process of in the MyWoodB0XX folder, but did not like the feeling of its surface and its large size.

I then made one in a much smaller aluminum case that I purchased from Digikey, and have had an acrylic panel laser cut with the layout I drew in Autodesk Inventor. Info about it and its upgrades can be found in the MyAluminumB0XX folder.

I have now made one using a laser cut wooden case, and internally it uses my new GCCPCB which allows for much cleaner internals, and many new features. More info about this build and the GCCPCB can be found in the MyLaserCutB0XX folder.

The process of making the detachable GameCube cable used with my Aluminum B0XX is detailed in the Detachable Cable folder.

The MiniB0XX folder contains files pertaining to a 3d printable case that is similar in size and potential functionality to my Aluminum B0XX.

The code folder includes the most up to date software for flashing to an Arduino.

If sharing any of the files/information found here, give credit where credit is due.

### Support my work

Do note, all Amazon links are affiliated, meaning I get a kickback when you buy anything using these links, and you pay the normal price of the thing. I figure it's a good way for people who want to support me to be able to without any additional cost.

I also set up a donation link for people who appreciate my work and wish to donate. Donations are greatly appreciated, but are far from necessary:

https://www.paypal.com/donate/?hosted_button_id=NFDEML5FKR8N8
